# Computer Science

## CSM 010 - Applied Machine Learning 

Machine learning is an important topic in both academia and industry these days. There has been growing interest in the practical side of machine learning. This module focuses more on the practical techniques and methods with Python and Scikit-Learn than on the theories or statistics behind these methods. The module enables students to gain hands-on and practical skills for machine learning-based analytics tasks, use appropriate Python libraries and tools to analyze data and develop the design and programming skills that will help build intelligent artifacts. The module helps students assess the performance of machine learning models and develop a deeper understanding of several real-life topics in applied machine learning, in order to develop the practical skills necessary to pursue research in applied machine learning. 

Topics covered: <br>
• Introduction to Python for machine learning <br>
• Preparing data <br>
• Feature selection for machine learning <br>
• Resampling <br>
• Feature evaluation <br>
• Rule-based algorithms: decision tree and random forest <br>
• Regression-based algorithms: logistic regression and neural networks <br>
• Large-scale machine learning using TensorFlow <br>
• Real-life case studies: financial forecasting  <br>
• Real-life case studies: computer vision <br>


## CSM 020 - Cloud Computing

There is an emerging computing paradigm called cloud computing wherein IT-related functions (e.g., storage or database, applications) are provided “as a service” to end-users under a usagebased payment scheme, due to economies of scale and advancements in virtualisation technology. In such a cloud computing model, end-users can hire virtualised services on the fly based on fluctuating requirements (workload pattern, quality of service expectations etc.), and, in doing so, they avoid worry about infrastructure details such as where these resources are hosted or how they are managed. Furthermore, developers with innovative ideas for new Internet services no longer require large capital outlays in hardware to deploy their service or human expense to operate it: instead of buying and maintaining machines, they can just rent computing cycles that are needed. This offers great benefit to IT companies by freeing them from the low-level task of setting up basic hardware and software infrastructures, and thus enabling more focus on innovation and creating business value for their services. It is widely believed that cloud computing is the most significant and disruptive transformation the IT industry has ever undergone. An information system or software application “in the cloud” typically consists of a front-end and a back-end. The front-end is usually in the form of a light-weight Web or mobile-phone program that can be almost as interactive and functional as traditional desktop software. The back-end normally involves heavy-weight batch jobs that harness the power of tens, hundreds, or even thousands of machines to crunch massive amounts of data. The module introduces the concepts of distributed computing systems, scalable infrastructures as well as development and configuration of complex Programme Regulations 2022-2023 Computer Science (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)     University of London 14 large-scale applications and systems. Students learn how to develop and deploy modern applications on cloud platforms, such as in Google Cloud Platform and Amazon EC2. Cloud Computing introduces a variety of modern tools and technologies including the use of virtual machines and containers, the configuration of distributed systems, deployment and understanding of operations of NoSQL systems, development of RESTFul services with Python, understanding of DevOps practices and infrastructure as a code and use of big data processing systems such as Hadoop MapReduce and Apache Spark. Topics covered: • Cloud computing technology • Cloud services and Virtualization • Web services, REST and authorization protocols • Using Python frameworks to develop APIs with Django • Distributed and parallel systems with Python • Cloud data storage systems and NoSQL systems • DevOps and Container systems • Service-Oriented Architectures • Distributed systems configuration • Introduction to Big data and Hadoop-Map Reduce framework 

## CSM 030 - Computer Systems

This module takes a programmer's view of how computer systems execute programs, store information, and communicate. Its purpose is to enable students to become more effective programmers with the ability to deal with performance, portability and robustness challenges using an in-depth understanding of hardware and operating system capabilities and their constraints. The material covered in this module provides the foundation for students to delve deeper into key elements of the software engineering toolkit and offers a variety of methods and techniques to employ in solving real-world problems. The main aim of the module is to learn how computers work: the basics of computer architecture and organization, and the role and mechanism of operating systems. To learn the basics of computer architecture and organisation, and the role and mechanism of operating systems. Specifically, students are introduced to three key aspects of computer systems: storage, processing and transmission of information.  Topics covered: • Introduction: history of computers, main parts of computers, fundamental concepts of computing. • Processors: main components of a CPU, the fetch-execute cycle, instruction sets. • Processes and threads: implementation, scheduling, inter-process communication, synchronisation. • Deadlocks: detection and recovery, avoidance, prevention. • Memory storage: cache, internal and external memory. Programme Regulations 2022-2023 Computer Science (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)     University of London 15 • Memory management: allocation and protection, virtual memory with paging and segmentation. • Input-Output systems: bus architecture, interrupt mechanism, OMA, device drivers, disk scheduling algorithms. • File systems: access and allocation methods. • Protection and Security. • Multiple processor systems. Data Management (CSM040) This module covers the principles and application of data and knowledge management technologies and languages including SQL. Students study the use of these in leading commercial database management systems as well as emerging approaches to data management. The module also examines the technologies underlying modern data management systems. It studies advanced aspects of query processing, transaction management, distributed data management, and recent developments in web data, big data and alternative database architectures. Data and knowledge management represent a core technology in the theory and application of Computer Science. Students study the advanced aspects of databases and recent advances in data management technologies in three major directions: performance, distribution of data, and heterogeneity of data. Topics covered: • Database management software: origins and objectives. • The relational model: algebraic and logical foundations. • SQL: data manipulation, host language support for SQL. • Transaction management, recovery, concurrency. • Relational database theory: dependencies, normal forms. • DBMS architectures and implementations. • DBMS storage and indexing. • Query optimization. • Enhanced database capabilities: procedural extensions to SQL, database triggers, deductive databases. • Non-relational DBMS, object databases, NoSQL databases. Fundamentals of Computing (CSM050) Discrete mathematics, mathematical logic, and the related fundamental areas of data structures and algorithms lie at the heart of any modern study of Computer Science. Any understanding of how computers operate and how to use them effectively and efficiently, in terms of either their hardware or software, inevitably involves numerous mathematical concepts. This module introduces and develops mathematical notions, data structures and algorithms that are used in various areas of Computer Science, in particular those required for other modules of the proqramme. The module aims to: introduce the notation, terminology, concepts and techniques underpinning the discipline of Computer Science; promote the importance of formal notations as the necessary means of ensuring clarity, precision, and absence of ambiguity; provide an introduction to the concepts and manipulation of the basic finite structures as these arise in Computer Science, e.g., Programme Regulations 2022-2023 Computer Science (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)     University of London 16 computer arithmetic, strings, graphs, sets, digital circuits, lists, binary trees; introduce basic models of computation, such as finite automata and Turing machines; give students an understanding of the fundamentals of data structures and file organisation: their representation, algorithms for their operation, and the relative merits of different structures and methods; and introduce the design and analysis of algorithms, and their efficiency/complexity. Topics covered: • Numbers: integer, rational, and real. Numeral systems • Arithmetic for computers • Digital logic (combinational circuits) • Elements of set and graph theories • Finite state machines (automata) and regular languages • Turing machines • Data structures: representations and operations • Lists, trees, forests, binary trees • Tree traversal and other operations; binary search trees • Sorting and searching Information Security (CSM060) Information security is about protecting information (and information systems) against unauthorised access and tampering. Avoiding security breaches has a high priority for organisations storing and handling confidential data. Large amounts of confidential information are stored in today’s information systems. Breaches of security can have dire consequences for the organisations running these systems, therefore it is very important to manage the risks associated with securityrelated issues. In recent years the topic of information security has played a bigger and bigger role. Consequently, everyone involved in the management of information systems should have at least some basic knowledge of it. The main aim of this module is to provide broad coverage of the field of information security. This course covers the technical as well as the management side of security information systems. Despite being an essential part of security, technical methods such as cryptography are not enough to guarantee a high level of security. They have to be embedded into a wider context in order to make them more effective. Users of technology have to understand the underlying principles and follow certain policies to avoid security breaches. This module introduces the fundamental approaches to security engineering and includes a detailed look at some important applications. Topics covered: • Overview of Information Security • Security Policies • Social Engineering • Basic Cryptography • Identity Management • Access Control Mechanisms • Assurance and Trust Programme Regulations 2022-2023 Computer Science (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)     University of London 17 • Network Intruders and Intrusion Detection • Firewalls and Malicious Software • Economics of Information Security Information Systems (CSM070) The module describes approaches, processes, methodologies and techniques commonly used for large-scale information systems development. It covers the systems development life cycle (SDLC), including project initiation, analysis, design and implementation, addressing key aspects and techniques at each stage. Project methodologies are described, with an emphasis on the Scrum methodology. The module also incorporates insights into professional and legal issues associated with EIS development. The primary aim of the module is to describe enterprise information systems (EIS) and to set out the considerations and approaches used to implement (deploy) these systems in the business enterprise. This covers predominantly the Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and the various methodologies used to formalise it, including waterfall and agile approaches, with particular emphasis on the Scrum method. In the course of this module students are introduced to a range of topics relevant to EIS deployment and the SDLC, including object-orientation, the Unified Process and Universal Modelling Language (UML), enterprise architecture and technical architecture. Alongside describing the SDLC, students will be introduced to practical aspects associated with a career as an IS professional, and social and organisational aspects of enterprise computing. This will include topics such as Intellectual Property, Digital Surveillance, Data Privacy and Ethical issues in computing. Topics covered: • Introduction to Enterprise Information Systems (EIS) • SDLC, IS project methodologies and the Unified Process • Unified Process – Planning & Analysis • Scrum I – Process, Roles, Activities & Ceremonies • Scrum II – Artefacts & Concepts • Enterprise Architecture & Technical Architecture • EIS Implementation and Operation • GDPR, Freedom of Information & Intellectual Property Rights • Contracts & Business Planning • Computer Misuse, Digital Surveillance and Ethical Issues in Computing Object-Oriented Programming (CSM080) The module further develops the core software engineering skills and knowledge following on from the Principles of Programming module as a key ingredient for students pursuing a qualificiation in Computer Science. In particular, this module discusses issues specifically related to developing programs for large programming projects and for modern computer hardware architectures. This module covers object-oriented programming, including the use of subclasses, modules, and library classes to create well-organised programs. The module enhances student’s understanding of making appropriate choices on the selection of algorithms, their implementation together with the Programme Regulations 2022-2023 Computer Science (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)     University of London 18 required data structures (e.g. arrays, lists, trees, graphs, depth- and breadth-first search algorithms). The module enables students to develop programs for modern multi-core architectures utilising functional programming constructs. Topics covered: • Transition to Object-Oriented, including types, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and message passing • Static typing and reference types • Further recursion and memoisation • Local I/O • Generics • Style rules • Concurrency • Further test-driven development through unit testing and JUnit • Lambdas and Streams • Programming in teams Principles of Programming (CSM090) This module introduces programming concepts and techniques, as well as elementary software development principles. Both for absolute beginners and for those with prior programming experience, the module introduces the fundamentals of programming, including: variables and assignment, primitive and complex types, methods, control structures, collections, iteration, recursion, as well as classes and objects in object-oriented programming. The module also introduces basic software development issues such as design, testing, debugging. The module provides the student with a comprehensive grounding in programming and familiarises students with a modern programming language such as Python. Topics covered: • Core imperative programming ideas: sequence, iteration, assignment, and variables • Data types • Collection Data Structures: Arrays, List, Sets, Dictionaries • Functions • Version Control • Automated testing and test-driven development (TDD) • Functional programming features of Python • Dynamic data structures: Linked lists, Queues, and Stacks • Recursion • Exception handling   Programme Regulations 2022-2023 Computer Science (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)     University of London 19 Software Design and Programming (CSM100) The main aim of the module is to provide students with the necessary skills to design software in an object-oriented way according to high quality standards. This module provides students with the necessary skills for developing software using object-oriented and functional programming paradigms. This ranges from learning object-oriented concepts, designing object-oriented software using a proven methodology and tools, to learning how to program in an object-oriented and functional style. The module provides a detailed examination of Software Design Patterns and the emerging functional features of current day object-oriented programming languages. Topics covered: • The object model and how it is realised in various object-oriented languages (e.g., Kotlin, JavaScript, C#, Java, Scala, Swift, ...) • Further development of the ideas of inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction • Language features nested classes, closures, higher-order functions, meta-objects, etc. • The functional paradigm. Abstract data types, polymorphic types, static typing and type inference. Recursion and induction. List processing. Higher-order functions. Eager and lazy evaluation. Imperative features. Signatures, structures, functors, type classes, monads • An introduction to Test Driven Design (TDD) and Behavioural Driven Design (BDD) • The use of an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for software development: e.g., editing, debugging, compilation, etc. • Modularity, versioning, packaging, and managing the build process • Design Patterns and Anti-Patterns and their application to software design • The SOLID (Single responsibility, Open-closed, Liskov substitution, Interface segregation and Dependency inversion) approach to object-oriented programming and design • Code refactoring and analysis Project (CSM500) To consolidate the learning achieved during the ten modules of the MSc programme, students will undertake a work-based project. The project will draw on elements of learning from different parts of the programme and demonstrate students’ insight into, and understanding of, software engineering and computer science in the context of their addressing the needs of a client organisation. Examples of projects include: • An electronic commerce website for a family business following digitisation • A mind-mapping native application tool for a major operating system such as Linux, Windows or Mac OS designed for the specific requirements of a school • A fundraising app for a charity for one of the major mobile OSs such as Android and iOS • A data analytics tool for the analysis of mobility patterns collected from a geo-location service for a local delivery business • The back-end service and REST API providing access to a legacy knowledge base operated by a client organisation Programme Regulations 2022-2023 Computer Science (MSc/PGDip/PGCert)     University of London 20 The module aims to: provide an academic structuring for a client-facing research project; support students in negotiating the complexity of undertaking such a project, using appropriate methodology; develop students’ ability to function as independent software engineering professionals; enable students to collect, record and analyse software requirements in the context of a problem in a specifically-focused application domain; develop students’ ability to design a software solution and fully document their design; demonstrate the ability of students to carry out all the phases of the software engineering process; and support students in the recognition of structural factors and uncertainties and the ability to work effectively with these. The module offers students the opportunity to: develop a systematic understanding and critical awareness of an agreed problem in the area of data science; plan and execute a major piece of programming work appropriate to the MSc programme, critically present existing approaches in the problem area, position their own approach within the area and evaluate their contribution; and gain experience in communicating complex ideas/concepts and approaches/techniques to others by writing a comprehensive, self-contained report. The main part of this module will be completed by the student on their own. There is a small taught component of the module in which students are acquainted with: • How to formulate the objectives and aims of an MSc project. • How to write a project proposal. • How to organise and plan the project. • How to undertake a literature review. • How to write a project report. During self-study, students cover the following topics: • Identifying a client and their needs • Preparing a project proposal • Writing a critical literature review • Document client requirements • Designing a software solution and documenting the design using a formal methodology • Selecting an appropriate software methodology process that can deliver this solution • Identifying data protection and ethical issues • Providing a comprehensive implementation of the software design developed • Testing the developed software using an appropriate methodology and establishing that it is fit for purpose • Organizing and presenting a report on the work undertaken 
